One of the themes that we've heard
throughout the day is that neural nets
are replacing a lot of traditional
tools. And I think one of the most
exciting application categories where
we've actually seen that come to life is
within chip design, where neural nets
are now becoming superhuman at certain
parts of the semiconductor design
process. And so I'm thrilled to
introduce Anna and Azalia. They were the
co-creators of AlphaChip, which did
exactly this at Google and
was used on multiple generations of TPU
and have now started a company to to
build this. Thank you and welcome Anna
and Azalia.
Thank you so much.
>> [applause]
>> Hi everyone. Azalia and I are so excited
to be here today to talk about our new
company, Recursive Intelligence, where
we're doing AI for chip design and chip
design for AI.
We've been working together closely for
the last 10 years across Google Brain,
Anthropic, DeepMind, and then because it
wasn't enough to work at one
institution in parallel, I started my
PhD while continuing to work full-time
and Azalia joined the Stanford faculty.
So you know, we have been working in
many different
places together for a long time. But our
thesis in this company is that chips are
the fuel for AI and that we should be
using AI to design, to optimize, and
automate the chip design process and
close this recursive self-improving loop
between AI and its physical substrate.
We started this direction in 2018 with
our work on AlphaChip,
where we developed a deep reinforcement
learning agent that was capable of
generating superhuman chip layouts.
This work was published in Nature, but
the interesting part about it, in our
opinion, was that it was actually used
in the tape-out of real chips. So the
last four generations now of Google's AI
accelerator chips, TPU,
data center [clears throat] CPUs called
Axion,
Pixel phones, and also autonomous
vehicle chips, and in addition to
adoption by external companies like
MediaTek.
And so we decided to start this company
to take this work to the next level and
take on all of the chip design workflow.
We see the company in three phases. So
currently we're in phase one, where we
want to accelerate the chip design
process. So today there are two long
poles. One is physical design,
and which is placing the billions of
standard cells or billions of
transistors and routing billions of
these components onto a chip canvas, and
design verification, which is verifying
the correctness of the logic of that
chip. Each of these can take up to a
year and involves hundreds or thousands
of human experts. And the stakes are
extremely high. So we've heard estimates
like one day of delay of an Nvidia
chip cost like a Blackwell cost a
company something like $225 million in
lost opportunity cost. So we want to
help existing chip makers get to market
faster, build faster, cheaper, and more
environmentally friendly chips.
But I think in phase two of the company,
we want to democratize chip design. So
we want to become a platform for
designing new hardware, where we can
take as input like a workload, say like
the next quad model, design an
architecture that massively accelerates
that workload, and then do the entire
design process all the way to GDS2
clean, which is the format that we send
to the fabs for manufacturing.
And in that case, we can massively
unlock the number of customers that we
could serve. Like any company that has a
workload that that they serve at
sufficient scale could benefit from
custom chips, even if they don't have
teams of hundreds or thousands of human
experts.
And then phase three of the company
would be vertical integration. So if we
have this capability to quickly design
highly performant chips, why not build
our own chips? Why not train our own
models and co-evolve them?
And serve intelligence at a price or
capability that would be impossible to
match.
So Azalia's going to talk a bit more
about our our approach in this company.
Yes.
If I can stop on this slide. So on the
right side, we're showing you the flow,
the traditional flow for chip design. It
starts with architecture design and it
goes all the way to sign-off, and that's
what you send to the fabs. And as you
can see, there are many components here,
and the way these
kind of phases are done today with human
experts in the loop, working with
commercial tools that sometimes takes
days to run for a single iteration of an
optimization. So our approach here at
Recursive is to first redesign the way
these tools
perform, make them 100,000x faster, and
then they're primed to be used with AI
because, as you know, our AIs really
like fast iteration loops and they can
just exponentially learn more and
co-optimize across a very, very large
space if we enable them to do so.
So by co-designing across the stack, we
what this enables is unlocking massive
performance improvements and time to
market, which comes from both the
co-design and the automation.
To just show you a glimpse into what we
are building, here is an STA, a static
timing analysis engine. This is one of
the
a very challenging component of physical
design. And what we are showing here is
that we are we have built a tool that
correlates with the commercial tools
very high fidelity, and what we can do
here is do so a thousand x faster. Now
imagine if you're doing an AI tool use
or an RL loop, we can we now have this
kind of feed feedback signal that we can
use in the optimization, we can do a lot
more with it. Here is a example of how
our outer outer loop, our AI works with
this tool. Like here, early on is what
we get with a single iteration of our
inner loop, but as the AI optimizes
around the recipes that are possible to
use these tools with, we can get
significantly more performance.
So taking a step back, what Recursive
is enabling is a new era, which we call
designless, just like fabless, um
enabled by companies like TSMC,
made made it such that we can have
Nvidia, Apple, other companies focus on
designing chips and send off the the
designs for fabrication elsewhere. We
want to be the platform for
chip design, so companies can focus on
the application, modeling, and other
layers, and we can be the compute and
hardware that enable those applications.
And the impact would be that we we can
democratize chip design and enable a lot
more variety and performance types of
chips possible.
So
right now,
there are a few mainstream chips for AI
inference. But as you can imagine, and
as a lot of talks and conversations
today allude to, we are going to need a
whole lot more performance in the coming
years. And one way to unlock a lot of
performance is through customization. So
when we build chips that are truly
customized to the workloads that we are
serving, and we at Recursive want to be
the platform that enables this Cambrian
explosion of chips, so we can build a
lot more variety of chips that are
really custom to the types of workloads
that
the companies and the users care about.
And if you can imagine, these chips can
enable a very large workload like a
frontier model, or it can they can
enable like a very low power or high
throughput or other kind of variations
of performance that we that we would
need.
And finally, we have an amazing team.
Our company is a little unusual in that
we have this
subset of people who are very expert in
LLM. They have
they have worked on um
Quad, Gemini, um
Grok, and such in the past. And now that
we have put them together with these
experts in chip design, and so it's a
very great mix and we are very glad that
we get to build together.
Yeah, and with that we can conclude the
talk. Happy to answer questions.
>> [applause]
>> Hey,
any word on the the shape of the chip
placements that you end up seeing out of
these models compared to the Oh shoot,
we should have shown some of the
layouts. So I think just like in
AlphaChip, we're seeing these kind of
curved, organic-looking
shapes to our placements. So human
experts, they tend to make these very
aligned,
regular-looking placements, but the the
AI-generated ones look more like
yeah, organic, curved, which minimizes
wire length, improves performance, but
it was kind of shocking to physical
design engineers when they first saw
them. A question on the
cost of these specialized chips. I
totally understand that you could make a
better chip with AI and have better
placements and stuff. But you I think
Azalia was also making the point that
you could make specialized chips.
How does the scale work out? I don't
know the first principles of chip
design. Can you make thousands of
different chips and make them as cheaply
as one Hopper architecture?
I mean there's yeah, go ahead. Yes,
there is
definitely what we are doing here is
like we are going into a new regime
where we have we can work compute into
our advantage. So by scaling compute, we
can reduce the run times to design the
chip and also to enable more performant
chips. So we are basically introducing a
knob. Um now, through customization,
given the scale at which AI workloads
are going to be run, the economy of
scales is going to is is working itself,
right? Even a 1% improvement in a chip
that serves a frontier model is a is a
massive uh gain and success if you can
if you could enable that. But, at
different scales, we have different
performance gains. And again, what we
are talking here is that we are using
compute to bring automation and better
performance. And and and that's a knob
that we can play with.
>> [applause and cheering]